---
title: Blockchain Chicken Farm (2020) by Xiaowei Wang
tags: 📚Books Summary Thoughts
excerpt: And Other Stories of Tech in China's Countryside
status: ongoing
---

I am enjoying this book, and I love how Xiaowei Wang (Creative Director at Logic Magazine) interweaves quotidian observations from fieldwork with critical insights on innovation and the geopolitics of technology today. It makes me feel like I am sitting on the train with them travelling across cities in China, shifting in and out of different milieus. 

Fitting with my current mood to immerse myself into 中国文化 [[Another chinese book I am currently reading is Invisible Planets. Wish I could find the chinese version.::rsn]] recently, I am grateful that I can read a book on technology through a consciously decolonialised perspective. 

The discourse on technology development is undisputedly shaped by the Global North. I have been craving to read books on the real and warm-bodied stories of how technology has created different sociocultural practices among different communities or societies. 

Here I summarise some findings that I thought were interesting: 

# machinic ecologies of control 
[[*Nature x Technology relations*::highlight]]

As the title of the book hints, XW investigates how the countryside has adopted various "emerging technologies" to streamline their processes and improve productivity and increase profits. 


Early this year, it was also announced that Huawei, one of the largest infrastructure/technology providers in China, is [investing in pig farming](https://www.scmp.com/tech/big-tech/article/3122215/huawei-turns-ai-pig-farming-chinese-tech-giant-explores-new-growth). It was not until I read this chapter that I found out that China's is the world's largest pork producers.


## Machinic ecologies of control
XW brought to light the panoptic surveillance of pigs enabled by the new wave of data analytics and surveillance. There is something unsettling, in the control of animals, in our control of machines doing this job. 


# Governance and Social Trust [[The word "trust" seem to elicit some visceral reaction in me, mainly because at my workplace we are diving deep into this...::rmn]]

This corroborates the interconnections between governance, technology and social relations.

