---
layout: post
title: Field Notes from within the COVID-19 era

---

In Singapore, we have been confined to our houses in what is called a "circuit breaker" measure for close to two weeks now. I wake up and instinctively click on my social media apps and listlessly scroll through my feeds, foggy-eyed. Soon, everything slowly fades into white noise. This is my body attuning to a different rhythm of the world. 

At the point of writing this, I'm listening to a youtube playlist on bluetoothed speakers. I have my partner, m, on WhatsApp videocall on my phone next to me, as he talks to a friend over Discord, both of whom are playing *Borderlands 2* in a steampunk, dystopian gameworld. 

This is the present condition, where existing in a multiplexity of spaces and timescales has become norm. In a *becoming-virtual* real world, lived realities reflect the metaphysics of postdigital scholars, who long argued on the confluence of the immaterial/material dichotomy. 

There are ongoing narratives being weaved today, discourses overlapping one another. Here, I contribute what I can to this. I write to create an archive from a time within the pandemic as it unfolds, sprawling out. 



## Igniting *string figures*: Seeing COVID-19 in new light





## COVID-19 as Hyperobject

It would be notable to 

Dark ecology is coexisting with ecological awareness that is depressing, and strange. It is becoming accustomed to strangeness that does not become less strange through acclimation. 

The strangeness of the moment now 



if anything, these scho

It is all about decentering our anthropocentric discourse. 



## Who writes the narrative? 

We’re becoming a memetic monoculture, the news that should be reaching us is not, and our cliqueishness with respect to ideas is shrinking and I think it's a good example of that phenomenon



## Capturing flows

quotidian flows

we have to be equally as sophisticated in the treatment of the socioeconomic networks as we are coming to be in the treatment of the social epidemiological networks



global neoliberal capitalist frameworks caused the coronavirus. how did a simple decision made at a board meeting of investors led to the emergence of a deadly pandemic? It's continua all the way down. The interconnection. climate change. 



David Krakauer: "... what the modelers call a “density-dependent transmission” versus a “frequency-dependent transmission.” With density dependence as the term would seem to imply, the higher the density, the more transmission there is."



Also in this new normal, how have previous forms of behavior transmuted? 

<p style="padding: 1rem; border: 1px solid #ddd;">
Really like how Parikka brings affect into the picture


    the strange and multidirectional loops of affect, technological and biological overlaps







## Cyber-psychogeographies of intimacy without proximity

**<see paper by the we have never been postdigital guy ?>** on phenomenology

 *The masses struggle to maintain intimacy through virtual proximity.* </sup>

 Idea, walking through various towns in physical site

and also walking through various online mediums. 

---



quarantine culture 

The outside takes on an alien form, the outside feels like a simulation, the domestic now the Real. 

As we retreat to the virtual as a form of respite, 

**"The unintelligible, transcendental core of cyberspace comes from the vastness of its material network.**           **Becoming-virtual real world**





I have been thinking about how user interfaces shapes our cognition, and influences our attitudes and moods/ 



