---
title: weekly roundup
excerpt: <!--blank-->
---


*starting a thing where i write weekly summaries. currently this goes by the unit of weeks by the gregorian calendar.*

harvest moon was on the 1st of october. I remember walking around my condo compound and admiring the lights they hung up.

Have been really into attuning myself to the rhythms of the moon, and I'm aware there are practices around this and the charging or alchemising of energies with regards to the moon. This quote by umi was lovely: 

"Every full moon, every new moon, I feel an energy shift within me. We [as humans] have a lot of water within us, and the moon has a pull over the oceans and bodies of water. So to me, we're also pulled and influenced by the moon"


- i wonder what effects it has on our psyches. 
- This week, I continued my cycles to different places. While staying over at m's, we cycle everywhere - to get food, to go on dinner dates. i enjoy and love how my relationship to my surroundings, to Singapore has changed since m introduced riding into my life, our lives, and how special the connection is when shared with other people
    - __internal note: especially, i enjoy the wind!!__
- wonderful experiences this week
    - cycling with seewah along upper thomson, and am still in awe she managed to conquer the terrifying hills of thomson with a bmx with no gear
    - dinner with kristen, russel, and meeting melvin in-between
    - spending work days at melvin's place and bonding with his dog gomi
    - receiving a pretty bouquet of flowers from shermane, and eating her verrrry good cheese from the cheese ark
- __internal note: (things i'm thinking about)__
- I resonated with this article that nooranah sent me - __Three feelings that I don't have words for__ - but instead, i call them digital somatic memory. 
- in a moment of hyper or meta- self awareness, it is like i automatically tell myself 'ok, vanessa, i'm going to take a snapshot of your bodily and psychical sensations now' - and i store this flattened memory of a moment in time, to my memory. thinking of making this into a list, stored somewhere. 
    - i think it is particularly curious when i "feel" my devices, as if i am entangled with them. e.g., 
    - when i ctrl-c, i feel like i'm holding onto something, and i need to release them, let go of them 
    - when i am doing a battery-heavy task on my phone, e.g. watching a youtube video on mobile data, i feel - somehow! - myself being depleted
- hence i am wondering if the extension of mind  theory has incorporated the Minds we accord to our devices around us
- headspace this week
    - preoccupations? headspace? 
- habits i want to absorb
    - [[habit]]
    - being deliberate in the present moment
    - noticing how i feel after a seemingly stressful or anxiety-inducing task
    - loving yourself will naturally raise your vibrations
- Knowledge
- Reading
    - Notable books
    - articles you might like!
        - "[[📑 Standardising the splinternet: how China’s technical standards could fragment the internet]]"
        - "[[📑 A Subak Analogy Model in Computer Network Subject for Vocational Student]]"
