---
title: poem 02
excerpt: <!--blank-->
---

**meditation**

what is it like to have your breath
sucked out of your body

When breathing strikes to a singularity, where
It's tight and —
*Zero*

---

When I was younger, I told my father about my anxiety about anxieties. He told me he clears his head best in the shower. When thoughts are running, he likes to visualize the number 0 in the shower. That night, I traced the number zero on the shower door. 

Now, I wonder if he thinks of the number 0
When he gazes out at the sunlit greenery
A light he could never again bask in
I imagine time feels warped and stretched
When you're bound to a single point in space
Granted only with micromovements

The number zero.
My father tethers around infinity and nothingness. 

---

Presently, the ambience here fills with his lack of breath
Echoes of heavy coughs and choked voices now seep into my half-conscious haze,
Where he always sits upright in my dreams, 
talks to me about electric sheep and holds my hands through carnivals.

---

Background. My father has went through multiple strokes and he's bound to his bed in the living room. Every two days, my helper and mom would have to use a machinery to suck the saliva/phlegm out of his throat so that it doesn't collect in his lungs. He has been sent to the hospital a few times due to pneumonia arising from that. I hear it's painful. We have the oximeter on his thumb everytime this is done to make sure his heart rate doesn't go > 130, or oxygen <90. This piece is me thinking through the ambience of having to care for a sick person at home; machine making weird coagulating mess of sounds and having his breath sucked